Skip to content
Allrecipes
Search the site

Newsletters
Sweepstakes

Recipes
Breakfast and Brunch
Eggs
Chef John's Shakshuka
4.8
(294)
212 Reviews
125 Photos
This shakshuka recipe is a one-pan meal that is fast, easy, and delicious.

By John Mitzewich  Updated on April 15, 2026

Save

Rate
Print

Share
Add Photo

125

Prep Time:
15 mins
Cook Time:
35 mins
Total Time:
50 mins
Servings:
6
Jump to Nutrition Facts

Why You'll Love This Recipe
This dish features a spicy tomato and bell pepper sauce with poached eggs.
Everything cooks in a single skillet for a fast and fuss-free meal.
"So flavorful with the cumin and smoky paprika." —Allrecipes member MarshaB

Keep Screen Awake
Ingredients

1/2x

1x

2x

Original recipe (1X) yields 6 servings

2 tablespoons olive oil

1 large onion, diced

½ cup sliced fresh mushrooms

1 teaspoon salt, plus more to taste

1 cup diced red bell pepper

1 jalapeño pepper, seeded and sliced

1 teaspoon cumin

½ teaspoon paprika

½ teaspoon ground turmeric

½ teaspoon freshly ground black pepper, plus more to taste

¼ teaspoon cayenne pepper

1 (28 ounce) can crushed San Marzano tomatoes, or other high-quality plum tomatoes

½ cup water, or more as needed

6 large eggs

2 tablespoons crumbled feta cheese

2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley

Directions
Heat olive oil in a large, heavy skillet over medium-high heat. Add onion and mushrooms; season with salt. Cook and stir until mushrooms release all of their liquid and start to brown, about 10 minutes.

Add bell pepper and jalapeño pepper. Cook and stir until peppers begin to soften, about 5 minutes. Season with cumin, paprika, turmeric, black pepper, and cayenne. Cook and stir to blend the flavors, about 1 minute.

Stir in tomatoes and water. Reduce heat to medium. Simmer uncovered, stirring occasionally, until vegetables are softened and sweet, 15 to 20 minutes. Add more water if sauce becomes too thick.

Use a large spoon to make a depression in sauce for each egg. Crack an egg into a small ramekin and slide gently into an indentation; repeat with remaining eggs. Season eggs with salt and pepper. Cover and cook until eggs reach desired doneness.

Top with feta cheese and parsley to serve.

close up view of Shakshuka garnished with fresh herbs and toast on a white platter
DOTDASH MEREDITH FOOD STUDIOS
Recipe Tip
You can scale this recipe up to any size pan or baking dish if you need to serve a large group. Use one egg per portion for an appetizer or two for a main course.

Nutrition Facts (per serving)
185
Calories
Cook this recipe and more in the MyRecipes app.
