Skip to content
Serious Eats
Save
Rate

The Best Crispy Roast Potatoes Ever
4.9
(140)
422 Reviews
These are the most flavorful crispy roast potatoes you'll make. And they just happen to be gluten-free and vegan (if you use oil) to boot.
By
[J. Kenji López-Alt](https://www.seriouseats.com/j-kenji-lopez-alt-5118720)
Updated on September 21, 2025
Save
Rate
PRINT
Share

In This Recipe

* Choosing the Right Potato Size and Variety
* Why You Should Add Baking Soda to Your Potato Boiling Water

Jump to recipe

The British method of roasting potatoes is one that I've taken a strong liking to. It's simple, and it produces amazing results.
Serious Eats / Vicky Wasik

December 2016
Prep Time:
10 mins
Cook Time:
1 hr 15 mins
Total Time:
1 hr 25 mins
Servings:
6 to 8 servings
Yield:
Serves 6 to 8
Jump to Nutrition Facts
Keep Screen Awake
Ingredients

* Kosher salt
* 1/2 teaspoon (4 g) baking soda
* 4 pounds (about 2 kg) russet or Yukon Gold potatoes, peeled and cut into quarters, sixths, or eighths, depending on size (see note)
* 5 tablespoons (75 ml) extra-virgin olive oil, duck fat, goose fat, or beef fat
* Small handful picked fresh rosemary leaves, finely chopped
* 3 medium cloves garlic, minced
* Freshly ground black pepper
* Small handful fresh parsley leaves, minced

Directions

1. Adjust oven rack to center position and preheat oven to 450°F (230°C) or 400°F (200°C) if using convection. Heat 2 quarts (2L) water in a large pot over high heat until boiling. Add 2 tablespoons kosher salt (about 1 ounce; 25g), baking soda, and potatoes and stir. Return to a boil, reduce to a simmer, and cook until a knife meets little resistance when inserted into a potato chunk, about 10 minutes after returning to a boil.
2. Meanwhile, combine olive oil, duck fat, or beef fat with rosemary, garlic, and a few grinds of black pepper in a small saucepan and heat over medium heat. Cook, stirring and shaking pan constantly, until garlic just begins to turn golden, about 3 minutes. Immediately strain oil through a fine-mesh strainer set in a large bowl. Set garlic/rosemary mixture aside and reserve separately.
Serious Eats / J. Kenji López-Alt
3. When potatoes are cooked, drain carefully and let them rest in the pot for about 30 seconds to allow excess moisture to evaporate. Transfer to bowl with infused oil, season to taste with a little more salt and pepper, and toss to coat, shaking bowl roughly, until a thick layer of mashed potato–like paste has built up on the potato chunks.
Serious Eats / Vicky Wasik
4. Transfer potatoes to a large rimmed baking sheet and separate them, spreading them out evenly. Transfer to oven and roast, without moving, for 20 minutes. Using a thin, flexible metal spatula to release any stuck potatoes, shake pan and turn potatoes. Continue roasting until potatoes are deep brown and crisp all over, turning and shaking them a few times during cooking, 30 to 40 minutes longer.
Serious Eats / Vicky Wasik
5. Transfer potatoes to a large bowl and add garlic/rosemary mixture and minced parsley. Toss to coat and season with more salt and pepper to taste. Serve immediately.
Serious Eats / Vicky Wasik
Serious Eats / Vicky Wasik

Special Equipment
Rimmed baking sheet, small saucepan, fine-mesh strainer
Notes
Russet potatoes will produce crisper crusts and fluffier centers. Yukon Golds will be slightly less crisp and have creamier centers.
Read More

* Caesar Roast Potatoes Recipe
* Ultra-Crispy Roast Potatoes Recipe
