Skip to content
Serious Eats

Never lose a recipe again! Save your favorites in the new MyRecipes app.

Shakshuka (North African–Style Poached Eggs in Spicy Tomato Sauce)
4.7
(18)
47 Reviews
Vegetarian shakshuka is a one-pan egg and tomato dish perfect for breakfast, lunch, or dinner.

By J. Kenji López-Alt  Updated on September 28, 2025

Save

Rate
PRINT

Share

It's a toss-up as to whether it's more fun to say "shakshuka" or the name of its Turkish counterpart, menemen.

September 2016

Cook Time:
35 mins
Total Time:
35 mins
Servings:
4 to 6 servings
Yield:
Serves 4 to 6
Jump to Nutrition Facts

Keep Screen Awake
Ingredients
3 tablespoons (45 ml) extra-virgin olive oil, plus more for drizzling

1 medium onion, thinly sliced

1 large red pepper (bell pepper for milder heat, or a hotter variety, such as red horned pepper, depending on your heat preference), stems, seeds, and ribs removed, thinly sliced

1 fresh small hot chile (such as jalapeño, serrano, or Fresno), stems, seeds, and ribs removed, thinly sliced

2 to 3 cloves garlic, thinly sliced

1 1/2 tablespoons (15 g) sweet Hungarian or smoked Spanish paprika

2 teaspoons (8 g) whole or ground cumin seeds

1 (28-ounce; 800 g) can whole peeled tomatoes, crushed by squeezing between your fingers or with a pastry blender (see note)

Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper

Large handful minced cilantro, parsley, or a mix

6 eggs

Sliced oil-cured black olives, feta cheese, and/or artichoke hearts, for serving (all optional)

Crusty bread, for serving

Directions
Heat olive oil in a large, deep skillet or straight-sided sauté pan over high heat until shimmering. Add onion, red pepper, and chile and spread into an even layer. Cook, without moving, until vegetables on the bottom are deeply browned and beginning to char in spots, about 6 minutes. Stir and repeat. Continue to cook until vegetables are fully softened and spottily charred, about another 4 minutes. Add garlic and cook, stirring, until softened and fragrant, about 30 seconds. Add paprika and cumin and cook, stirring, until fragrant, about 30 seconds. Immediately add tomatoes and stir to combine (see notes). Reduce heat to a bare simmer and simmer for 10 minutes, then season to taste with salt and pepper and stir in half of cilantro or parsley.

Photo collage showing charring onions and peppers in cast iron skillet, then stirring in garlic and spices, for shakshuka.
Serious Eats / J. Kenji López-Alt
Using a large spoon, make a well near the perimeter of the pan and break an egg directly into it. Spoon a little sauce over edges of egg white to partially submerge and contain it, leaving yolk exposed. Repeat with remaining 5 eggs, working around pan as you go. Season eggs with a little salt, cover, reduce heat to lowest setting, and cook until egg whites are barely set and yolks are still runny, 5 to 8 minutes.

Photo collage showing adding eggs to shakshuka sauce, spooning tomatoes over them, covering the skillet, and finishing cooking.
Serious Eats / J. Kenji López-Alt
Sprinkle with remaining cilantro or parsley, along with any of the optional toppings. Serve immediately with crusty bread.

Special Equipment
Deep 10-inch skillet with matching lid, or 3-quart straight-sided lidded sauté pan
Notes
To crush the tomatoes, transfer to a large bowl and squeeze through your fingers to create a chunky purée.
Read More
Menemen (Turkish-Style Scrambled Eggs With Tomatoes, Onions, and Chiles) Recipe
